Theoma has sexuality, but it doesn't have sexual reproduction.  Sex for reproduction is something that lesser divinities observe animals to do.  It has no such implication for them.

So long as they neither study necromancy nor reproduce, lesser divinities are immortal on Theoma.  However, as all lesser divine souls are necromantic in nature, reproduction is itself an act of [[necromantic magic]].

Conception is the most widely understood and socially acceptable of the necromantic rituals.  It is the only one that all land gods are pledged to tolerate, and which may therefore be lawfully taught in any theome.  Unfortunately, it is even more dangerous than most necromantic workings.  As the souls of the lesser divinities are imperfect, every necromantic soul brought to Theoma brings a little more of death into the world.  The parents must pay a part of that price in advance.  This powerful necromantic channeling forces back the touch of [[fate]] on the would-be parent's [[geomantic interface]].  The weakening of the touch of fate on them results in substantial aging accruing to the individual over the course of the next twenty years or so.

Many of the lesser divinities have children anyways.  As long as they are not otherwise performing necromancy, it is common knowledge that people can withstand doing this once, and their apparent age will restabilize at a level that is still fairly young.  Unfortunately, the aging effect is more significant and discouraging on the second time.  The amount of aging that sets in after three pregnancies is often eventually lethal, though such individuals often succeed as parents and survive for several decades after.  Nobody has four pregnancies on Theoma, as the necromantic energy of the fourth is lethal.  Nor is this only a problem of the mother; both parents are affected, and occasionally so are third parties should any be deeply connected with the couple's reproductive decision-making.

If a land god is actively attending to an individual and agrees to do this, they can push back the price of reproduction, buffering out the necromantic energy and keeping fate attached to the would-be parents geomantic interface.  This prevents the aging consequences.  It also gives to the land god a very substantial influence over the nature of the child being conceived, and the land gods who are most interested in providing longevity-preserving fertility healthcare are also the ones who are most keenly interested in shaping the fates of young lesser divinities.  Whether or not drawing the personal attention of an immortal demi-omnipotence to a young and helpless lesser divinity is a boon or a bane is the subject of some debate.