Animals are geomantic constructs in Theoma.  They are agents of fate.  By default, they're part of the land god.  Lesser divinities can alter this just by paying attention to a particular animal; an observed animal behaves consistently, and an identified animal (such as a pet) behaves consistently even when not observed.  Long-identified animals usually get healthier and smarter over time, though they remain subject to the vicissitudes of fate; a ten thousand year old stray cat, however beloved, would not win a fight against a dragon, nor even be invulnerable in the wild.

Geomancers can do more; they can force consistency behavior across wide areas of effect (it is an in-setting unknown that wind mages are actually forcing 'nature' to exist by observing large amounts of it simultaneously), they can bolster animals so that they strengthen rapidly or change into 'better' animals (stray cat -> tiger), and they can even learn to create and control animals as geomantic constructs.  Note that most land gods resist granting the right to outright create anything to geomancers, so acting on this specialty requires the permission of two land gods.

Animals in Theoma really are deterministic semblances.  Unlike on Earth, where neural matter is reused extensively and nature is an infinite tragedy, Theoma grants cognition only to lesser divinities and land gods.  Animals do react in sophisticated enough ways that the sociopath cue still works (don't trust animal torturers), though with less child abuse on Theoma and better control by the land gods, the sociopathy rate is considerably lower.

Since there is no consciousness on the other end, bestiality in this setting is a form of masturbation... at least to those who know the above in-universe.  It's still potentially depraved to the great bulk of people who aren't geomancers or necromancers, and therefore can't tell that animals are oddly hollow shells of geomantic scripture.  For that matter, it's still potentially depraved to people who DO know that truth in-universe, because why, in this setting, would anyone lower themselves to sex with animals?

Some people get so attached to constructs (animals, golems, etc.) that they want them to become people.  Geomantic interfaces can be artificially constructed inside of stable geomantic constructs.  With the direct help of a land god, or the help of several powerful specialists (a geomancer and two necromancers is ideal), it's possible to summon a necromantic soul to the interface.

It's important to note that the land god /knows/ if you do *any* of this.  They're on the other end of it, just as they're on the other end of every interaction with objects.  (Every time you put a shovel into the dirt of Theoma, you *are* cutting the land god's flesh!)  There are three basic attitudes towards bestiality among land gods.  The first group agrees that animals are hollow geomantic constructs, and tries to ignore it.  The second group likes it, and bestialist activity in their domain draws their attention, which may be good or bad.  The third group considers all animal life in their theome to be an extension of their own self, and therefore they consider bestiality to be an assault on their own person.

Knowing which kind of theome you're in is pretty critical lore for a would-be bestialist, especially the third group of responses.  Raping a land god goes beyond having bad luck; the land tends to open up and swallow people who commit offenses at that level.  That is not *usually* a fate that people have to fear in Theoma.

---
Back to [[The Forbidden Page]]