Dragons lay eggs and hatch from eggs, and so they do on Theoma as well.  Yet far more eggs are laid on Theoma than are fertile.  The cause is nothing so clumsy as hysterical pregnancy; rather, it is that the eggs themselves accumulate magic, and their formation can be induced for the purpose.

[[Necromantic magic]] and [[geomantic magic]] can each be used to induce the formation of an arcane egg.  Geomantic spells to induce gravidity carry the proviso that this cannot occur in contravention of the land god's will; necromantic spells, as usual, have some resilience against being canceled (or even noticed) by the land god.  Geomantic spells of this sort cannot be used in contravention of the will of the participants; necromantic spells have no corresponding restriction, though it should be noted that necromantic eggs are not considered within the acceptable purview of 'sacred necromancy'.

Geomantic eggs are ultimately very arbitrary constructs, which the land gods enable by general consent, in order that dragons should have included something that is considered among their pleasures.  The limitations on what a geomantic egg can do are ultimately very loose, though they are not typically powerful; many geomancers seek permission for 'basic' geomantic egg spells, but few of them ask for great power in this way.  It would be very crass.  Still, some unusual enchantments are sometimes woven into geomantic eggs.

Necromantic eggs have more limited applications, yet they also have a much higher commodity value.  A necromantic egg is a blank [[geomantic interface]] full of unpatterned necromantic energy.  It does not contain a soul, but it does contain a rather large concentration of accessible energy.  Necromantic energy is usually too bound up in the stuff of necromantic souls to be easily worked with.  Casting necromantic spells with necromantic eggs is safer for lesser divinities than casting necromantic spells with their intrinsic necromantic energies, because they do not have to violate their own geomantic interface in order to access the energy.

Commonly, arcane eggs are a temporary thing.  They rot!  As such, they're created months in advance for purposes within a week of their expected laying.  If they're not being used directly in casting some other spell at that time, they're frequently blessed, cooked, and eaten.  Eating geomantic eggs is typically very healthy, and carries some planned-for magical effect as well; conversely, necromantic egg cuisine is not healthy at all, but necromantic eggs can be used to convey unusual enchantments.

Either kind of arcane eggs may be 'hardened' by an attentive spellcaster who focuses on rehardening the eggs every day.  This spell is not difficult or tiring, as it amounts to little more than 'holding onto' the blank geomantic interface for half an hour, but it's slow to cast and it requires consistency.  This risks a great deal of effort going to waste if a day is missed along the way, but if consistently reinforced every day, the resulting arcane eggs transform into crystal or stone immediately after being laid, and then will never rot.

Hardened geomantic eggs are typically used as durable, semi-mobile enchantment targets.  They're carriable, storable, and potentially even displayable.  Many large, permanent buildings have one or more hardened geomantic eggs built into their foundation to act as permanent anchor-points for geomantic energies to interface with the building.  Although thought of as permanent, hardened geomantic eggs do slowly disenchant over time (centuries), or quite rapidly (a few minutes of effort) if struck repeatedly by any tool held by any individual who wishes or intends to disenchant them.  They also tend to spontaneously disenchant if treated disrespectfully by their 'owner' or their 'parents'.

Hardened necromantic eggs are used to 'bank' necromantic energies in an unformated way, without having to bind it to a detailed geomantic interface.  They may also sometimes be built into the foundation of a building during its construction, in which case the building and its immediate vicinity will become forgettable to the land god; the building itself will then also resist geomantic spells.  Land gods have occasionally authorized this to create unusually stable (fate-resistant) structures within themselves, but they usually consider burying a hardened necromantic egg to be a form of mind-tampering directed against them, and are quite unhappy should they detect it.

Forming an arcane egg involves two participants in a familiar ritual, but it does also require a preparatory blessing, as that particular familiar ritual is otherwise only of affectionate value on Theoma.  The source of the preparatory blessing must be the 'mother' if a hardened egg is to be produced; otherwise, the blessing may be cast by either 'parent'.

Geomantic eggs are varied novelties that are commonly recognized to be the output of a fetishist community taking advantage of a common land god blessing, but necromantic eggs are (despite their dubious legal status) enough of a fungible commodity that some of the people who work and trade with them are unaware that they're made the same way as geomantic eggs.

---
Back to [[The Forbidden Page]]