The air is constantly flowing around Vashael.  Their entire species is advantaged in the particular form of geomancy known as wind magic, should they bother to study it, which not all Vashael do.  Communities that sexually develop Vashael wind magic have a higher rate of wind mage development.

The most basic sexual development of Vashael wind magic is inoffensive odor dispersal.  This is a skill taught in school, which is not immediately presented as sexual, and which in daily life sees plenty of non-sexual use.  The never-stagnant air around a Vashael always disperses odors somewhat better than it otherwise might, and a Vashael who learns to do this intentionally can make sure that odors are strategically dispersed in directions that don't have a person standing in them.  This skill can be developed into scent suppression, applying to both the Vashael's own odors, and potentially anything 'in arm's reach' as well.

In the process of strategic odor dispersal, most Vashael also learn to sense the molecular flow of scents.  This leads to the second level of sexual development of Vashael wind magic: scent curation.  Vashael who know how to do it start accumulating desirable scent molecules on their personal aura; such individuals can walk past a flower garden and still smell floral an hour later.  This autoperfumery skill is uncommon, though not rare.  It's considered romantic.

The third level of Vashael scent play is considered an infamous debauchery mastered only by Vashael alchemists, NOT wind mages, for after scent curation is scent application.  A sufficiently skilled Vashael alchemist can selectively breeze a group of people.  At its most basic level, this skill is used for delivering fumed potions quickly, and it isn't always or even usually sexual.  Yet among the potions on Theoma *are* aphrodisiacs and sexual enhancers, as well as a panoply of drugs which might be recreationally of interest, and any potion that fumes or can be modified to fume can be used with a surprising level of dose control.  There's a time/precision trade-off in scent application which is usually referred to as breezing (fast and imprecise) or teasing (slow and exacting).  Scent application used for sexual play is usually teasing.

The 'infamous debauchery' factor is that, to many of its alchemist-practitioners, sexual scent application is a 'party skill'.  It's something they use to show off for small groups of lovers.  Incorporating bondage play into this is pretty common as well.

There is one further application of Vashael wind magic to scent play which is often too crass for romance but not always beneath the dignity of Vashael alchemists to include in scent application: pheromone concentration.  The dragons of Theoma have varying degrees of 'mood pheromone'.  Vashael (and only Vashael) can suppress their own mood pheromones; conversely, because of their personal wind aura, Vashael who are *not* suppressing their own mood pheromones are emotively 'loud' as their pheromones spread enthusiastically on their wind aura.  A Vashael who deliberately gathers up the pheromones in their aura can breeze or tease with them, which is pheromone concentration.    Teasing with pheromones is as hard as alchemical scent application, although breezing with pheromones is only about as hard as scent curation.

The resulting observations of 'arousal contagion' have convinced a lot of dragons in Theoma that draconic arousal pheromones are aphrodisiacs in and of themselves, though really it's just situational; sane Vashael only do this in contexts where bluntly signalling their own sexual interest is likely to have a good result, and no physiological aphrodisiac effect is created from the mood pheromone alone.  That hasn't stopped pheromone fetishist communities from existing wherever there are enough Vashael; it's neither universal nor abnormal.

---
Back to [[The Forbidden Page]]