True Gate is an advanced geomantic spell which gives the geomancer a space in which they themselves are a land god... mostly.

This is one of the more 'epic' applications of geomancy, and the scale of Gate that a geomancer can open is a generally valid indicator of their actual underlying skill at geomancy.  Geomancers attempting to cast this spell under the right conditions (which requires the specific permission and preferably the assistance of a land god) will rarely fail in doing so, however the spell does not necessarily achieve useful or impressive results.  Novices sometimes learn this spell in eagerness to prove themselves, only to discover that their undeveloped geomantic spells leave them feeling overwhelmed with a 'Gate' to a 'personal theome' no bigger than a closet.  By contrast, very talented geomancers sometimes show off by inviting people to live in 'their' theomes, building ornate public gates past which thrive small villages.

The geomancer's 'theome' must still be anchored somewhere in Theoma, and is subject to the observation of the land god upon whose land the gate is anchored.  Should a gate become abandoned by its creator, it defaults to the land god who controls the theome in which it was anchored.  Small or malformed gates typically cease to exist at that point, but the more impressive ones are simply claimed by the land god as part of their theome.

Once a geomancer has established a 'True Gate', a portion of their ability is dedicated to it until they unwind it entirely, which they cannot *do* without the permission of the land god in which the Gate was established.  This can make it an unwanted commitment that geomancers are reluctant to make, and it ties their potency substantially to one theome.  Establishing multiple gates further heightens the difficulty and limits the degree to which the rest of the sub-theome can be developed; the most common number of True Gates to a sub-theome is therefore *one*.

A very few theomes have public transport systems traversed by entering and exiting a sub-theome with multiple gates that are near each other in the sub-theome and far apart in the anchor theome.  However, establishing such systems requires geomancers capable of casting large True Gates to yield the potential for building a castle or a village with a single gate, to instead build a much smaller hub with multiple gates.  For this reason, fast transit systems routed through True Gates are rare.  Of course, where the traffic solution *is* used, it's common for the small amount of real estate in the multi-gate sub-theome to be rented to commercial interests that want to try to sell stuff to the travellers who cross it.  That can be quite profitable.

---
Back to [[[Example Geomantic Spells]]]