A moderately difficult application of Materialism is the production of foreverice.  This material is moderately harder than natural ice and stays preternaturally cold indefinitely, being therefore potentially useful in constructing fridges.  However, it has odd side effects that reduce interest in using it, and refrigeration is usually done with other spells instead of foreverice.  Many materialists find casting the spells to create foreverice to be 'irritating' as it does not behave properly to their expectations and is difficult to work with.

Foreverice emits a weird hazy distortion that hovers near its surface and trails downwards from it as well as behind the ice when it is moved.  It looks like ice steaming at a glance, but causes dizziness in people who put their face close to it while looking at it.  Large foreverice constructs are hard to interact with due to psychoactive effects from the amount of haze that they emit; the sense of distance becomes unreliable to people exposed to it, and falling down onto a foreverice floor while already dizzy is very dangerous as the effect will intensify in a disabling way.  For this reason, foreverice floors are considered a kind of trap, not just for the lack of traction one achieves on ice, but because the haze intensifies the hazard for anyone who happens to slip.

Taking advantage of this anomalous psychoactivity, small amounts of foreverice are sometimes consumed as hallucinogenics, as they cause a frigid disorienting 'trip' that lasts a few minutes and is generally safe though of dubious hedonic value.  Visions of snowy palaces where distance has no meaning and everything is simultaneously near and far away are typically reported.  This is the most common use of foreverice, which is therefore most commonly traded in heavily insulated pill bottles.  Overdoses cause potentially dangerous hypothermia, nausea, and vertigo that lasts much longer than the initial trip.  Foreverice pills are not addictive, and few theomes ban it.

Weapons created from foreverice are sometimes used as a kind of magic item that does not spontaneously disenchant when crossing theome boundaries... usually.  However, foreverice cannot exist in some theomes, and will spontaneously evaporate in its entirety if it enters them.

The most stereotypical foreverice weapons are blades and spears, which keep a very sharp edge without maintenance and look amazing with the haze trailing off of them.  However, they're also brittle; even if they're not as brittle as actual ice, they still tend to shatter if used at length in combat.  For this reason, foreverice blades are sometimes heraldic weapons used for decor or symbols of office.  People who really want to get good combat use out of foreverice make clubs with it, instead.  A foreverice club is an ugly, simple weapon that maximizes the disorienting side effects of waving it around near someone you want to hurt.

Foreverice lasts forever as long as it remains in the configuration it was created in.  Damaged foreverice constructs begin gradually evaporating.  Shards of broken foreverice dissipate very rapidly.

---
Back to [[Technical Subschools of Geomancy]]