A necromancer is a trained, long-term practitioner with [[necromantic magic]].  Most of them died long ago, but as long as they carefully tend to their own [[geomantic interface]] after [[fate]] loses its grip on them, they can live in a state of everlasting undeath.  A few of the really talented necromancers don't die for a long, long time.  Such self-maintained "immortality" is a flourish for the prodigies, but all such efforts fail eventually.

Necromancers are subject to considerable repression in most theomes.  Land gods have difficulty perceiving the past, present, and future states of necromancers, and while they appreciate the minor necromantic chaos that most lesser divinities can bring to their plans, they find outright necromancers disturbing and hard to work with.  Necromantic artifacts are widely found in the illegal rather than legal markets for the same reason.  Associating with necromancers has a risky and rebellious vibe to it, as doing so steps beyond fate's influence as well as beyond fate's protection.

The most lawfully acceptable and reputable necromancers are those who teach the Rite of Conception and the Rite of Gargoyle Transformation, these practices being permitted in all theomes.  These are sometimes referred to as sacred necromancy, and necromancers who specialize in them may be called sacred necromancers if they lean into the semblance of sanctity.  Very reputable sacred necromancers are not seen as rebellious company.

A strange side effect of the ubiquitous decay that afflicts necromancers is that they are the only people on Theoma who are ever likely to be found wearing sealed attire.  Wearing clothing that completely encloses the individual permits a semblance of physicality and health which many find more comfortable for themselves and others than presenting as a corpse-mage or ghost.  Having long ago ceased to have faces of their own, some old necromancers are very known for their masks.