A wind mage is a kind of [[geomancer]], technically.  They are thought of more as a kind of working hedgemage useful to agricultural or seafaring communities.  Wind mages work with weather magic.

Wind mages are attuned to a very holistic sense of [[fate]] and do not train in the specific contractural awarenesses which are necessary to geomancers.  They do not cast spells in the name of specific gods, but rather every spell cast by a wind mage is the result of a specific current negotiation with the land god of the theome that they are presently in.  Most wind mages trance out for these negotiations; no legalisms or diplomacies are involved, but wind mages typically describe the subjective experience of a weather-working trance as one of *becoming* a weather system, and then struggling to hold onto their own perspective while immersed in the perspective of the weather that they are trying to change.  This is a difficult contest, as the weather has a great deal of energy which has often been summoned up in subtle ways by long-term fate pressures.

As with all geomancers, land gods can swat down wind mage spells, preventing them from working.  Wind mages are helpless against weather effects that are being consciously directed by the land god.  Such things are fairly rare however, and usually working wind mages just get deputized as a kind of sub-deity managing a fraction of the weather in the theome for as long as they stay in the weather-working trance.  The land gods do not care about the weather quite as often or as keenly as the lesser divinities care about the weather.

Advanced wind mages sometimes start tampering with more esoteric variables than the wind, while still engaging with fate in a very nonspecific way; it's difficult to describe the potential here, but imagine small blessings operating on the area of effect of a meteorological phenomenon.  Land gods tend to have mixed feelings about such things, though technically no wind mage can cast such spells without the land god permitting them to occur.

Most wind mages are helpless noncombatants.  All wind mage spells have very large areas of effect, but all of them are very, very slow to cast.  The duration of the necessary weather-working trances range from fifteen minutes to five hours, and it's fairly normal for the observable effects of the spells they cast to take hours after that to manifest.