Myrghon are bipedal dragons.  They grow rather magnificent manes, and the keep of their hair may distinguish them from each other; that said, they are not the most well-built dragons, and tend towards being overweight *or* scrawny.  Their weight diverges from the average and reaches for stability somewhere not quite healthy.

The Myrghon live almost exclusively underground.  Their innate magic manifests as 2 or more glowing *sharp* spindle-shaped gemstones which levitate under their control.  The number of these that a Myrghon has reveals the order of magnitude of their age.  A ten year old Myrghon has their first pair of spindles.  A hundred year old Myrghon has their second pair.  A thousand year old Myrghon has their third.  A ten thousand year old Myrghon has their fourth.  This pattern continues.  Myrghon are considered adults when they have four spindle-gems levitating at their side - which is to say, they consider reaching adulthood to take a hundred years.  "Child labor" is pretty common in their society, but it doesn't have the same meaning as it would otherwise.  They are not expected to dedicate themselves to jobs taken in youth, and workloads are typically lighter, especially in jobs where the work relies upon the spindles.

Myrghon gems are extremely important to their society.  Firstly, they have a blue-white glow; this is vital to the underground society, as it means that Myrghon are never apart from multiple light-sources that they can put into the air around them.  Secondly, they are almost unbreakable; if they *are* broken, they reform in a day.  The Myrghon are not mighty, and rather than use their own bodies, they typically use their spindles for the stonebreaking work and other extreme labors needed for their underground environment.

The flexible control of their spindle gems is critical to a lot of society and artisanship among the Myrghon.  Full power strikes from a Myrghon gem are fairly terrifying impacts delivered at the sharp point of a spindle-cut gem, but not everything a Myrghon does with their gem is at full power.  Myrghon can also blunt their gem; a gem that is being blunted develops into a rounded cylinder of glowing, shimmering fuzz that prevents contact with the sharp spindle-tips of the gem.  Some industrious processes rely on impact with blunted gems, but a blunted gem may also be used very gently, and so for instance Myrghon sometimes stroke each other with blunted gems.  It takes about thirty seconds of clasping the gem in both hands and focusing on it for a Myrghon to blunt it.  It takes about five seconds to sharpen it again; this requires the Myrghon to hold still, but can be done as a purely mental operation without touching the gem that is being resharpened.

Myrghon can never send a spindle-gem out past about the length of their tail held straight from their body; if a spindle-gem is forced beyond its maximum extension, it will fade and reform at the side of the Myrghon.  Spontaneously fading and reforming also periodically happens to spindle-gems that are being used heavily, which can be disruptive if it happens at the wrong moment.  Some tools in Myrghon society have slots in them that permit levitating or actuating them via slotting in a spindle gem, though this is dangerous as stressing the gems in this way will eventually cause them to fade and reform at an unpredictable interval.

Bunning their mane and sticking whichever spindle-gems they're not using into it has a perennial presence in the Myrghon culture; a bandolier across the chest is also a resilient style which makes a very different statement.  Some Myrghon just pocket their spindle-gems when they're not using them, and some Myrghon clothes have specially-designed pockets for doing so.

---
Back to [[Dragons]]