Veserus are quadrupedal aquatic dragons each of whom has an individual pattern of potential glowing scales on their body.  They need air only for speaking and sniffing at things, and this seems to be their innate magic; where other dragons have lungs, the unbreathing Veserus have buoyancy-control organs with smooth, muscular walls.  Immersed Veserus speak to each other through activating their glowing scales.  Although the exact pattern of the glowing scales is individual, there is a sufficient similarity between individuals that they can speak with it.

Although technically capable of living on land, Veserus really do not like drying out.  Their scales get very uncomfortable when dry, and unless they are also cycling impressive quantities of water through their body, prolonged separation from water results in agitation, irritability, and susceptibility to heat stroke.  This means that Veserus-majority settlements occur exclusively near public waterways.  Accommodating a Veserus far from water typically requires giving them a flooded bedroom *and* workspaces with water features large enough to swim in.

The largest Veserus communities are shockingly urbanized despite existing wholly underwater.  Some of the rivers on Theoma are much deeper than they appear, and though the bottom of them is still only a siltbed, there are great cities built into the walls of the channel above the silt line.  These have great curved stone walls cupping the tops and inflow edges of them, there to reduce the likelihood that river debris would immediately cloud the city water or degrade its structures.  These cities are even more impressive since they tend to be rather brightly lit if possible; the Veserus do not have exceptional dark vision.  They do have some appreciation for the connections between light, heat, and life, and so there are parks and gardens underwater in the Veserus cities, where Veserus have worked to discover what they can get to take root underwater.

Some of the other Veserus communities are actually 'off the maps'.  Usually, these were originally founded by smugglers and/or necromancers.  Built into underwater caves accessible from the riverbed, these secretive communities offer a deep freedom from the land god's oversight for those who seek it.  Of course, truly violating the land god's will is very dangerous, and typically the land gods have a pretty good idea of where the Veserus have built.  It should also be noted that a land god who *doesn't* know where the Veserus have built may placidly reconstruct all that 'normal soil' where they know that *they* didn't choose to put an underwater cave into themselves.  Burying necromantic eggs into the walls stops this from succeeding automatically, but it doesn't stop it from having the force of a tremendous local earthquake.

The most visible Veserus communities are generally not quite Veserus-majority; these occur in swampy terrains and alongside the banks of wide, shallow rivers.  These Veserus spend most of their time above the water, albeit where they have immediate access to water.  Swamp Veserus have a bad reputation for tracking mud everywhere, but they're quite smart and are frequently also the founders and planners of their communities.

Some of the Veserus who live above the water's surface believe that sleeping underwater dulls the minds of the Veserus, and pride themselves on being part of the smarter surface culture, which despite its muddiness is more advanced (so they claim).  There may be some truth to this; swamp Veserus are perceptibly *faster* than deepriver Veserus, and can perform many tasks a bit more quickly.  Beyond that, it's difficult to sort out natural talent from fate-boosted self-application, as many of the surface Veserus *want* to be intelligent.

They're also more irritable and prone to seeming miserable than are deepriver Veserus, which leads to the corresponding belief among the deepriver Veserus that sleeping abovewater disturbs and upsets the minds of the Veserus.  Since people of other species meet swamp Veserus more than deepriver Veserus, the faster, more irritable swamp Veserus do more to set the image of the species; that said, most deepriver cities maintain embassies in their region, so the placid deepriver culture is not wholly missing from the picture.

---
Back to [[Dragons]]