Vohntrai are a species of wingless bipedal dragon on Theoma.  Predominantly surfacers, Vohntrai come in as many varieties of color and pattern as other dragons do.  Stereotypically, they are tall and thin.  There is some truth to this (it is common among them), but not all Vohntrai match the stereotype; there are also short Vohntrai, fat Vohntrai, and heavily muscled Vohntrai.

Vohntrai psychology is largely normative, but it has two exceptions.  The first is that Vohntrai do not forget very much.  The second is that Vohntrai do not remember *anything* for more than four hundred years.  The timeout on their memories is long, but inexorable.  Young Vohntrai tend to feel advantaged by their superior memories; old Vohntrai sometimes feel disadvantaged by the fact that other species of lesser divinity are still capable of remembering what they were doing five hundred years ago.  Do their hundreds of years of good memory make Vohntrai seem older, or does the finite duration of their memories make them seem younger?

In terms of innate magic, it is very difficult to kill a Vohntrai.  They are highly regenerative.  If utterly annihilated by any death save suicide, Vohntrai will reform in a safe place in a nearby theome 5 years later.  They come back not as a ghost (which can in theory happen to anyone in Theoma), but as their own living self.  Magic scholars in the setting sometimes say that Vohntrai have a nearly indestructible [[geomantic interface]].  On which note, Vohntrai cannot become necromancers; learning to cast necromantic magic requires inflicting specific damages to the geomantic interface (which damages also invite necromantic decay).  The Vohntrai geomantic interface resists that damage, then heals it.

Vohntrai make excellent anti-necromancers should they be moved to that, due to resisting the injuries to the mind that necromantic auras sometimes inflict.  However, they do also suffer from close observation in some theomes, as they have less ability to resist geomantic influence.  Necromantic-sympathizing Vohntrai typically live in regions heavy with missing theomes to minimize fate influences that they otherwise have difficulty resisting.

There is one further anomaly to the Vohntrai, for which they are sometimes sorted into the category of ghosts and nomads.  Ghost Vohntrai are prone to living in one place for centuries.  Nomad Vohntrai are prone to living in any given place for only a few years, at most.  Any Vohntrai who remains in one theome for more than about three years starts becoming perceptibly translucent.  This starts faint, but will very slowly progress for the four hundred year span of their memories.  A Vohntrai who stays in one theome for the entire period of their memories will fade to total transparency; one week later, if they are still in that theome, they will spontaneously die and reform in a distant theome.

There is some fear around Vohntrai who are nearly transparent, because they have had centuries to learn their vicinity, and only the land gods can control someone who is invisible.  A Vohntrai who has been safe in one theome for so long has likely already attained the land god's blessing for whatever they are intending to do with their week of invisibility.

---
Back to [[Dragons]]