The geomancers of Uttermost Dark promote quiet contemplation in dark and silent places.  Their temples focus on quiet.  Although every temple of Uttermost Dark includes at least one room which is deep in the midst of dark corridors far from light, so that as near to possible to no light and no sound can reach it, most of the rooms of the temple are merely kept dim and quiet rather than wholly dark and absolutely silent.  The temples all use dark palettes.  As beauty is fortunate in Theoma and the people of Theoma live lives of limitless duration, the finest of the temples use their dark palettes very well in all the rooms and halls that are merely dim.

Geomancers sometimes seek out these dark spaces are used for studying fate, which is after all immaterial.  The isolation from all fluctuations of 'weather' is useful to them for some kinds of fate study, and geomancers meditating in temples of the Uttermost Dark report a kind of healing effect as well.

There are both few and many wind mages among the geomancers of Uttermost Dark.  Their isolate meditation in darkness uses a similar skill to wind magic, but in a way that clashes with it.  Developing both skills at once is difficult.  This mostly prevents wind mages from being devotees of Uttermost Dark.  However, the temples often hire (for gold) a single wind mage each, who sweeps through the deep tunnels in a patrol twice daily to exchange the air so that it does not become unhealthy to breathe.

Every temple of Uttermost Dark also includes a vault of artifacts, and often (though not always) a workshop for producing enchanted items.  These are used in studying local geomancy.  They are often also valuable, so thefts are not unheard of.

Serenity seems to be the focus of the Uttermost Dark.  They are non-disruptive to land gods by basic inactivity.  When they do act, it is in a way that they have calculated will be supportive of the desires of the land god, and therefore specifically pious.  Each temple is dedicated to the specific land god of its theome, and supports that land god in this way.  This lends them a diversity of prioritization, as beyond their basic serenity and shared darkness, each one builds up a local lore of its specific land god.

---
Back to [[Meta-Religions]]