Gargoyles are animate stone constructs, and although there is nothing flesh about them, they are technically necromantic constructs rather than geomantic constructs.  The land gods say that they did not plan for gargoyles, and indeed have great trouble planning for the existence of gargoyles.  Like all necromantic artifacts, gargoyles gradually fade from the awareness of the land gods.  Unlike most necromantic artifacts, the land gods seem to feel impressed by and protective of gargoyles.  "Gargoyles were the only good thing ever invented in a necromantic academy," has been said by more than one land god.

Every gargoyle was originally an individual of a different species on Theoma.  Creating a gargoyle always involves a transformation.  It is a work performed upon the individual's [[geomantic interface]], transferring it to the body of the gargoyle through means known only to sacred necromancers.  The geomantic interface is modified in the process, and gargoyles are only mostly the same person before and after.  Necromancers cannot convert their own selves to gargoyles.  Most of them wouldn't, since it would destroy their primary skill.

The most common and significant difference is that gargoyles are bound protectors.  There is also one *other* change: gargoyles lose most of their potential to channel necromantic energy.  Gargoyles are immune to the side effects of necromantic decay, but they themselves can be at most third rate necromancers.  Actually, a great many gargoyles ARE third rate necromancers; since they're immune to the side effects, they can use weak necromantic spells at will.  They just can't get much better at it.  The gargoyle conversion is the most powerful spell they can ever cast, and most of them can't.

Their protector bindings, stone bodies, and minor entropic magics make gargoyles into popular choices for some kinds of security work.  At the same time, a lot of gargoyles are petty criminals and rebels who object to the land gods' control of Theoma in some way.  It's not unheard of for people to seek out the transformation because they fear the land gods.  The protector binding is a potentially significant personality alteration, and yet it's also fairly loose; *who* or *what* a gargoyle ends up protecting matters a great deal.

The protector bindings can in theory be left off of the gargoyle conversion, but even the land gods who are sympathetic to necromancy disapprove of that.  While "sacred" necromancy can be a mere pretense (and often is), unleashing third rate necromancers on the world is not always appealing to even a rebel necromancer, since the power to cast minor necromantic spells at-will without backlash or risk of detection by land gods can inflict wounds that the land gods will not detect.  While this cannot harm very powerful necromancers, it can harm novice necromancers who are not wholly beyond the healing of land gods, and it can inflict chaos on social systems when non-necromancers are harmed in secret.

Pious gargoyles are also a thing.  Most of them seek some kind of geomantic spell that they can cast, because making regular use of geomantic energy in any way temporarily renormalizes the interaction of the gargoyle with fate.  Fate interacts with pious gargoyles as if they were lesser divinities who simply happen to be made of stone.

---
I still want to include them in the setting, but I haven't decided if gargoyles are a kind of dragons.  Probably not, I think.  They're stone given necromantic potency.

---
Some hostile theomes are actually hidden cities of gargoyles.  They're formed when land gods want populations who have ENTIRELY assented to protector bindings... although it might in theory happen when land gods want populations who are entirely non-biological, too.  There's rarely any need for a sewage system in a city of people of animated stone.