I admire this workbook, and I was thinking about giving it a go with Theoma.  Since it's a beautiful workbook and I only have one copy, I don't want to write on it.  I do have the potential to fill it out here.

The first four segments are biomes, geography, weather, and time.  The biomes section appears to be informational assistance for writing the geography section.

I'm not sure how much of this I can use, though it's a reminder to take into account all four seasons.  There's a degree of 'museum' to all of Theoma, and the land gods actually trade around a lot of their natural environment plans.  So for instance, even though Cortacaffakallyenay (one of the land gods) doesn't physically export snowflakes anywhere except occasionally to neighboring theomes when weather events breach the edge of the theome, his theome Nyberinz *is* literally maintaining the faculty of winter for other land gods.  They can borrow from his work, and he has studied many landscapes and variations to make this possible.

There's actually a lot of reuse in Theoma.  The land gods have a massive but not infinite number of variations, and a comprehensive survey would discover that some of the most appealing trees (for instance) have been duplicated many times.  Specialist land gods invent more variations within their specialty all the time, of course, and even the non-specialist land gods have an organic environment with which to produce more.  Growing the same tree from a seedling a hundred times will not produce a hundred identical trees unless specifically pressed by Fate to do so.