"You're all necromancers.  We're all geomancers.  The most prestigious among us are the best necromancers.  The most prestigious among you are the best geomancers.  This is one of the foundations of Theoma.  Another one is that you're all so much worse at necromancy than we are, that you rot before you get good at it.  We can fix that, but only for people who aren't fighting for control of their own necromantic energy."
 - This is an address by a land god to a group of arcane students, at some point.  A rather advanced group.  The fact that all lesser divinities are capable of necromancy *is* a secret in the setting.  (These might all be; I'm currently copying them out of my typewriter.)

"Wind magic is a pure abstract application of geomancy.  It's a great wobbly curve of geomancy, ditching every exact or legalistic construct that geomancy can sustain for sweeping the fate of the area with a gentle brush of raw chaos.  That's what wind mages do, and it's so different from most geomancy that few of them understand that they're using the same theoretical construct.  That's what Vashael do, and land gods as well; indeed, the air is ever-moving because we can *never* still the wind.  Geomancers who have never cast a wind spell have a kind of geomantic purity unavailable to land gods."
 - An attempt to explain wind magic

"Fire is an entanglement of necromantic and geomantic energies.  On the smallest scale, it is a kind of paradox.  The geomantic energies oppose each other aggressively under chaotic command.  An astute student of geomancy might notice - correctly, in fact - what this implies of the very common real or illusory fire-like effects that accompany many spells.  Someday, someone is even going to figure out it says about phoenixes and dragons.  More immediately however, it should be noted that fire erodes most curses and blessings very effectively."
 - A potentially inaccurate description of fire magic.

"Crystal magic is a horrific alien energy of extreme self-consistency.  It isn't fate or necromancy.  Anyone using 'ice magic' is using crystal magic.  This stuff is an amazing dangerous toy; ice magic is generally the friendliest version of it."
 - A misconception of crystalline structures in the setting.  I was thinking about this as potentially valid, but I think crystals fit the typically-legalistic structure of exact definitions that geomancers tend to prefer.  if I use this, it'll be as an erroneous description rather than an accurate one.

"Why be anything but a mage?  Well, fire mages are common; almost anyone can summon a fire or limn their other magics with it.  Wind mages spend most of their time meditating to very little apparent effect.  Crystal mages directly summon valuable raw materials, but most can summon only tiny quantities of anything, and some of the things crystal mages can summon have had the value crushed out of them by oversupply.  Necromancers have many strange and interesting powers, but of course they infamously rot their way into unlife.  Geomancy is a career that draws countless people, but most geomantic magic is as invisible as wind magic, and lacks tactility!  All these drawbacks are very real."
 - Arguments against magic.

"All land gods are geomancers, and all lesser divinities are necromancers.  Land gods are much, much better at most tasks, but lesser divinities are bizarrely precise at both kinds of spellcasting.  Land god spells are big, fuzzy, flustery things that surprise the land gods themselves.  Lesser divinities approach the same toolkit and practice contract law with it.  That's fascinating.

Nor do all lesser divinities practice contract law.  Some of them practice with the impurity of the land gods themselves, and praise land god magic as land gods use it.  This is the practice of wind mages.  It's less fascinating and more cute.  Kind of like pets, though keeping windmages as pets is mostly just a trick to keep the pleading geomancer population down.  (Most of the land gods keep no pets - unless you believe the cynics who say everyone is a land god's pet.)

Land gods usually don't mind the smaller, stranger ways that lesser divinities use magic, and the exceptions are usually VERY hostile.  Generally, helping lesser divinities find beauty in the world is what magic is for, including the shepherding of magic that land gods offer.  Without land gods regularizing the flow of magic, lesser divinities would ALL be suffering necromantic rot!"
 - "On the Affinities of Land Gods"

Postscript:  Crystal mages are practicing pure geomancy.  They're much more competent if they learn wind magic or geomancy first, but too many people in the setting rush at trying to summon gemstones, and learn bad things that make them incompetent.