A fantasy item for myself.

A ring of hunger steals nutrition from its bearer; a ring of nourishment contributes nutrition to its bearer.

On Theoma, these are linked to each other, and will not function unless linked to one or another specific network.  If the networks are imbalanced such that there are more rings of hunger than rings of nourishment on the network, the rings of hunger are weakened while the rings of nourishment are strengthened.  If the networks are unbalanced such that there are more rings of nourishment than rings of hunger on the network, the rings of nourishment are weakened while the rings of hunger are strengthened.  As rings of nourishment are used in medical care and rings of hunger are typically worn in conjunction with rings of nourishment, this is the more common network state.

If someone wears both a ring of hunger and a ring of nourishment from the same network, both effects apply and the individual's nutrition level is pushed towards the average of the network.  This is a common practice in communities where these rings are common, and it considerably reduces malnutrition in the community, including accidental malnutrition.  (It's considered a way to improve dietary health without worrying about it.)  If someone wears rings of hunger and nourishment from *different* networks, complex schemes of nutrition transfer are possible, but it's not clear to me why anyone would bother.

Rings of hunger are sometimes called "Gourmand's Rings", especially if they bear other beneficial enchantments.  They preferentially pull "excess" nutrition, but will not stop if there is no excess to pull; starvation sets in more rapidly while wearing a ring of hunger, and malnutrition is a little *more* probable.  On the other hand, overdosing on anything the rings consider a nutrient is less probable (note that some vitamins and minerals are beneficial in low doses and toxic at high doses), as long as there is someone else wearing a ring of nourishment on the network who could benefit from it.

Rings of nourishment are considered a basic medical item, and spares are found in most long-term medical care facilities.  This permits response to and is sometimes used to resolve nutritional deficits, but the real essential need is to provide sustenance to people who are sick or injured.

Rings of nourishment in networks where rings of hunger considerably outnumber rings of nourishment are derisively called 'rings of fattening'.  The most common cause of 'rings of fattening' is in communities where it is common to wear two rings of hunger and a ring of nourishment.  This practice is typical for individuals who want to wear a ring of hunger, but fear that connecting to the geomantic nutrition-sharing network exclusively as a source will cause malnourishment.  If this fear and practice is common across an entire community, the disproportion results in weak rings of hunger and strong rings of nourishment, which may result in unintended consequences for people who join the network on the sink side.  (This also results in the visible anomaly of fat people who never eat.)

Rings of hunger in networks where rings of nourishment considerably outnumber rings of hunger are referred to fearfully as 'rings of starvation'.  This can be a temporary state in communities with well-supplied medical facilities if a crisis results in all the spare rings of nourishment getting activated; people who are wearing both a ring of hunger and a ring of nourishment sometimes report having a visceral sense of the health of their community!  This issue is considerably less stable than the corresponding 'rings of fattening' issue.  Rings of nourishment stop working if nobody is using rings of hunger, so 'rings of starvation' are usually solved by unnecessary rings of nourishment getting deactivated (taken off) until the network rebalances.

Nutrition-sharing networks cannot cross theome borders; as rings of hunger/nourishment are enchanted to associate with a specific network, their nutrition-sharing enchantments do not work (and are at substantial risk of spontaneous disenchantment) if taken across theome borders.  It's common for theomes to only have one network for all such rings operating in its boundaries, but geomancers producing rings of hunger and nourishment can specify new networks arbitrarily.

Rings of hunger and nourishment generally get healthier to wear as the network they're linked to gets larger, as the rings are more capable of transferring nutrients effectively with many sources and many sinks.  Unbalanced networks that are bad for the health of their wearers may get mass-canceled by the land god of the theome.

Rings of hunger and nourishment tend to get better as the ages progress on Theoma.  Truly excellent rings of hunger and nourishment require a deeper understanding of nutrition than even the land gods have in the first era.

An undead necromancer cannot interface with the rings of hunger and nourishment, but a living necromancer wearing a ring of hunger taints the entire network with necromantic energies, making the land god less able to observe nutrition issues across the individuals wearing rings of nourishment in that network.  This is usually considered unwanted meddling, and it draws the land god's attention to the necromancer in ways that they probably don't want.

---
Back to [[Magic Items]]