Imagining the growing activities of Theoma is important to me.  To some extent the setting is a more benevolent primitive era, as it is a setting that is with little aging from the outset.  Birth and death are both rare traumas in this setting, and a great deal more of what goes on is the relatively satisfying experience of healthy adulthood.  I accept that processes of social change are likely to be relatively slowed by the excellent conditions that are common in Theoma, so I'm particularly interested in an area likely to experience petty constant evolution: food.  It takes no great dissatisfaction to seek novelty in food, but indeed food quality is something of a 'late' priority when situations are favorable.

As well, the processes of industrialization from agricultural inputs are likely to be stronger on Theoma, and selective breeding from agriculture is likely to develop very early due to the non-destruction of farmers through aging processes.  Climate irregularities resulting from the pursuit of agriculture are less likely due to the slower breeding cycle of the immortal populations as well as the active tending of the land by the land gods.  This means that agricultural developments which occurred late on Earth are likely to be early on Theoma, and the crops might get a bit extraordinary.  Romanesco broccoli surely exists here...

---
I'm not sure what else I want to add from Earth.  Cruciferous vegetables are already an indulgence, by the feel of it.

---
Crops:

Candlegourds:  These waxy inedible gourds are very flame retardant. The name 'candlegourd' is given as candles can be set inside of them with little risk of creating a fire.  If hollowed out, they make surviceable and fire resistant dishes.  The flesh is poisonous if consumed, however its emetic properties generally make lethal doses unachievable; growers who cannot process the flesh have little choice but to compost all save the shell of the candlegourd.  Thin slices of candlegourd flesh are sometimes candied to create an appetite suppressing medicine ("the dose makes the poison").  Candlegourd wax can be refined to produce a flame-retardant compound whose sale provides the bulk of the value of the candlegourd for most growers.  Candlegourd shells can also be sliced into strips and put through a heavy press to create candlewood, which is a weak lumber but very resistant to fire, being therefore used for sparkproof claddings and firebreaks.  It's said that you can't make a furnace out of candlewood, but you can safely clad a furnace with candlewood.

Buloba:  These bulbous root tubers have a disgustingly bland flavor and are considered inedible raw despite a lack of toxins.  Skinning the root yields a small amount of edible flesh with a better taste.  Slicing buloba roots and cooking them in a broth or stew is also considered acceptable.  Finally, it is also sometimes lightly cooked, then sliced and brushed with strong seasonings, in which mode the buloba itself is considered a neutral flavor.  Buloba is an easily grown food crop.

Feeth:  Originally known as feather-fronds, feeth plants grow long feather-like extensions.  Most people know feeth only as feethcloth, a widely traded textile available in two grades.  The larger a feeth plant grows, the longer the fibers in its "feathers", and the longer fibers yield a higher grade of cloth.  Silken feethcloth is thus made from the largest feeth plants with the largest feathers.  Common feethcloth is produced from the rest of the field.  If not harvested at the right time, feeth-feathers release feather-tufted seeds on the wind, greatly reducing the yield from each plant by having many of its fibers fly away.  Farmers who are trying to produce silken feethcloth therefore run the risk of having the finest part of their crop blow away on the breeze.  Feeth plants grow only in direct sunlight and will wither if shaded.

Thaumora:  Trees of the thaumora genus are popular subjects for monocultural forestry.  Tending a thaumora tree farm is somewhat labor-intensive as the trees will grow sickly if they are not kept in beautiful surroundings, and so thaumora tree farms are typically also parks with statues and benches.  Thaumora trees manifest etheric energies in their branches, and harmless plays of light wend their way through most thaumora trees most of the time.  Locally active magics alter the appearance of the energy that flows through thaumora trees, for which purpose single thaumora trees are occasionally planted as passive arcane observers, and groves of them are sometimes used for lightshows.  Thaumora trees are particularly beloved of phoenixes, as they will flare (harmlessly) with an effect suitable to the element of the phoenix should a phoenix alight on one.  (This is one of the few ways that 'ghost' phoenixes of air element can make their presence unambiguous should they wish to.)  The applications of single thaumora trees have little to do with the operation of thaumora tree farms, which are ultimately interested in the production of lumber and furniture. Although the wood of thaumora trees doesn't show the same properties as the living trees, it is a wood of respectable construction quality that is also favored (arguably due to superstition) for "mystic" furnishings and accessories.  Given ideal conditions, it also grows moderately faster than most trees, particularly compared to trees yielding dense wood.  Of course, the challenge of maintaining a beautiful park while also regularly replacing the trees in it occasionally defeats would-be Thaumora farmers...

Grendbean:  This mild sweet bean is mostly used in confections, though it can also be added to savory dishes.  Despite its sweet flavor, it's known for providing long-lasting satiation.  We would say on Earth that it has a low glycemic index, but nutritional sciences on Theoma aren't advanced enough to have such terminology.